text this morning, 2 Corinthians chapter number five.
We'll be looking at verses 14 through 21, 2 Corinthians five
verses 14 through 21.
When you found your place there in 2 Corinthians five,
I'd like for you to hold your place there
and also turn to the book of Acts and the ninth chapter.
As we think about the passage of Scripture that is before us
and we find the Apostle Paul is writing to the church in Corinth
and we understand that Paul
was used of the Lord to write much of the New Testament.
I'm so thankful the Bible tells us
that the word of God is given by inspiration for all.
Scripture is given by inspiration of God.
And we understand that truth.
We also understand that the Bible tells us
the holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.
And so we find that God used human penman and the Apostle
Paul is used to write this letter to the church in Corinth.
Of course, he wrote the first letter that bears that name,
first Corinthians, and then here in second Corinthians.
And we come to the fifth chapter.
We're looking at verses 14 through 21 this morning.
The Bible says this for the love of Christ constraineth us
because we thus judge that if one died for all,
then we're all dead and that he died for all that they which live
should not henceforth live unto themselves,
but unto him which died for them and rose again.
Wherefore, henceforth, no, we no man after the flesh.
Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh,
yet now henceforth, no, we him no more.
Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature.
Old things are passed away.
Behold, all things are become new
and all things are of God who hath reconciled us
to himself by Jesus Christ and have given to us
the ministry of reconciliation to wit that God was in Christ
reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses
upon unto them and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ
as though God did beseech you by us.
We pray you in Christ's stead.
Be ye reconciled to God,
for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin
that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
I'd like to preach a message that I've entitled this morning.
Be ye reconciled to God.
You see, that is the last phrase of verse number 20.
If you trace the steps of the Apostle Paul, you find there in the passage
where I asked you to hold your spot in Acts nine.
You have the opportunity to read of his conversion
in that passage of Scripture.
Of course, we first find the man Saul at the end of Acts
chapter number seven at the stoning of Stephen.
When the Bible tells us that they laid down his garments
there at someone's feet, whose feet the one was Saul,
he was consenting unto his death, according to chapter eight and verse
number one.
And at that time was a great persecution against the church.
And you find that Saul made havoc of the church,
according to Acts eight and verse number three.
But in Acts chapter nine, we find that Saul had those letters
that he had desired and he was going to Damascus to the synagogues.
The Bible tells us that he was going to see if he found any of this way,
whether they were men or women, that he might bring them bound
unto Jerusalem.
But he was on the way to Damascus, and suddenly the Bible tells us
that there shined round about him a light from heaven.
We find that Saul, as he is there on the road to Damascus,
he's going with the intent of taking and binding these Christians
and bringing them back to Jerusalem and imprisoning them.
And we find here that Saul is asked this question as he hears this voice,
Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
And Saul responds with this wonderful question,
who art thou, Lord?
And we find that Jesus replies and he says, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
So we find that the Holy Spirit of God had been working in conviction
in the life of this man, Saul, and his response to this conviction
was to intensify his persecution and to go with greater zeal.
He made havoc of the church, as I mentioned already.
And it would just be as the one would use those prods
to the pricks to prod the livestock.
He said it's hard for the kid to kick against the pricks.
And we find that Saul responds and says, Lord, what will thou have me to do?
And it's interesting that you find that the answer that Jesus gives
is to arise and go into the city and it shall be told thee what thou must do.
And we find that the Lord gave Ananias the privilege,
the ministry of going to Saul and to giving him some instruction.
And it's interesting that we find the Bible tells us in verse number 20 of Acts nine
and straightway he, speaking of Saul, preached Christ in the synagogues
that he is the son of God.
Why do I use this passage of Scripture in Acts chapter number nine
as we're studying 2nd Corinthians chapter number five this morning?
Because I want you to understand the testimony of the life of the apostle Paul.
I want you to understand that in Acts chapter nine, his conversion is recorded
and I believe that as you continue to trace the steps of Paul through the book of Acts,
I believe that as you read the letters that God allowed him to write to the churches
and that which is contained within our New Testament,
I believe that you will find that in the life of this one Paul
that he regularly rejoiced in his salvation.
He never got over the fact that he was saved by the grace of God.
He understood that he had been redeemed.
He understood that he was reconciled to God.
And we find that Paul never got over it.
He rejoiced greatly.
We find that on many occasions as you read through the book of Acts
that Paul took the opportunity to share his personal salvation testimony
and to speak of his conversion and all that Christ did for him.
And I wonder this morning,
that as we look at the example of Paul
and we begin to dig into this passage of Scripture
that is before us in 2 Corinthians chapter number 5,
and we find that Paul understood the miracle of salvation
and the privilege that he had to know the Lord Jesus Christ,
I wonder this morning if we live every day with an appreciation of our salvation.
I wonder this morning, when you woke up this morning at some time during your devotions,
if you thank the Lord for your salvation.
God, I just want to thank you that I'm saved.
I thank God for my family, but I thank God for their salvation.
Not just for who they are individually and what they do and that sort of thing,
but I'm thankful to God on a daily basis that they're saved.
That they know the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior.
I thank God for my salvation, and I don't ever want to get over the fact that He saved me.
I don't ever want it to just become commonplace.
Oh yeah, I'm saved. Oh yeah.
No, no, no. I hope that we would understand
and as we would have and be mindful of the price that was paid
by the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary for my sin,
that it would have me regularly appreciate my salvation.
We sing a song, Hallelujah, What a Savior.
It's a great song, and we find that often as we think about our salvation
that we would conclude with that very statement, Hallelujah, What a Savior.
We have a wonderful Savior.
And I'm so thankful this morning for my salvation.
And as we think about this truth, be reconciled to God,
it might be important for us to give a definition of what it means to be reconciled
or what the truth of reconciliation is.
And really it carries with it the idea of a return to favor with someone.
In the biblical context and what we're dealing with this morning,
you find that it says, be reconciled to God.
And so we find that the someone is God Almighty.
That's who we're to be reconciled to.
We'll get into the reason that we need to be reconciled here in just a moment.
We find that another definition that is given of reconciliation
is the restoration of the favor of God to sinners
that repent and put their trust in the substitutionary death of Christ.
Be ye reconciled to God.
And some of you might be watching online and say,
well, I've already been saved, I've been reconciled.
Well, hold on and stay with me through the entirety of the message this morning
because that's a good thing and that's a wonderful thing,
but there's an important impact of our reconciliation
that we'll get to at the end of the message this morning.
If you're taking notes, be reconciled to God.
Notice number one with me, the miracle of reconciliation.
The miracle of reconciliation.
See, there's a problem and the problem is called sin.
I got a text message from a preacher last night. He's a
pastor that has retired and he
Travels and he seeks to come to churches and not really in the capacity of an evangelist though
He does do some evangelist type ministry
But he just seeks to come alongside churches and just encourage them
He and his wife stopped by our church about three or four years ago, and they called us and said hey
We're gonna be in your area on a Tuesday night
I believe it was and I know that you don't have service
But but we'd like to just take you and your family out to dinner
We just want to be a blessing and encouragement to you
and he pastored for a number of years and
He just wants to be a blessing to pastors and what a blessing he is and he's added me to his list and he sends
Out a text every week and just seeking to encourage pastors and he said this in his text the question
What can wash away my sins is?
Much more important than the question. What can wash away my germs?
And I thought that was kind of interesting as we deal with all that we're dealing with this morning
in our world in this pandemic that's going on and the reality is that the
Blood of Jesus Christ is the only thing that can cleanse us of our sin. The Bible tells us
That or let me say this we sing that song what can wash away my sin?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus and I'm so thankful for the blood of Christ when we think about the miracle of reconciliation
We find that there's a problem. We find that that there the problem is sin. This is a
problem that is
certainly affecting every human being this problem of sin and this results in being at
Enmity with God and we find that the Bible tells us notice in our passage of Scripture in 2nd Corinthians chapter number 5
He says this at the end of verse number 14 that if one died for all
Then we're all dead
Obviously you speaking about the Lord Jesus Christ dying for all why because we were dead we were dead in our sins and our trespasses
We were dead spiritually
We had to be quickened being made alive through that process of regeneration
Being reconciled to God and we find here that he says in verse number 15 and that he died
For all aren't you thankful for that?
For God so loved the world
But he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life
We find that the question could be asked as we look at that truth in John chapter number 3
With regard to that verse of Scripture that so commonly understood
In verse number 16 and often quoted we find at the end of John chapter number 3
The Bible says in verse number 35 the father loveth the Son and hath given all things into his hand
He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life
And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on
him
Paul says this that one died for all that's the Lord Jesus Christ his substitutionary death
Then we're all dead and that he died for all that they which live
Should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again
We find the miracle of reconciliation. See there's a problem
The problem is sin notice what Paul says in Romans chapter number 5
That sin causes us to be at enmity with God and if we find that we're dead in our sins and our
trespasses in Romans chapter number 5 a wonderful passage of Scripture dealing with
Justification we find that the only way to be justified
To have peace with God is through our Lord Jesus Christ. It tells us that in Romans 5 in verse number 1
Therefore being justified by faith. We have peace with God
through our Lord Jesus Christ
Notice verse number 8 it says this but God commendeth his love toward us and that while we were yet sinners
Christ died for us
much more than being now
Justified how by his blood we shall be saved from wrath through him for if when we were enemies
We were reconciled to God by the death of his Son
much more being
Reconciled we shall be saved by his life and not only so but we also joy in God through our Lord
Jesus Christ by whom we have now received
The atonement this is a miracle the miracle of reconciliation see the problem was sin
The fact that we were born sinners
We find that in verse number 12 of the same passage of Scripture that's before us in Romans 5
The Bible says wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world
We find that Paul is giving
Reference back to the event that is recorded in Genesis chapter number 3 when sin entered into the world in the Garden of Eden
with Adam and Eve
Taking of that forbidden fruit and the Bible says and death by sin
And so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned the miracle of reconciliation
It starts with a problem the problem is sin, but then we see the provision the provision is that
substitutionary death of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary
His precious blood was shed so that mankind could be redeemed and thus reconciled to God be brought back into that
to favor the
Restoration of favor see we're at enmity because of our sin, but Jesus Christ died on the cross of Calvary
He was buried in a borrowed tomb. He rose in victory on the third day
Conquering sin death in the grave and as you trust the Lord Jesus Christ the finished work of Christ at Calvary
You're redeemed and thus reconciled to God
It's a wonderful truth of the Word of God
And we find that this truth of reconciliation notice
He says in verse number 17 of 2nd Corinthians 5 therefore if any man be in
Christ
What is he he's a new creature?
Old things are passed away behold all things are become new
And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself
by Jesus Christ
The only way to be reconciled to God is through the atonement of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary
There's no other way to have reconciliation
There's no other way for that
That enmity that division that separation that exists because of our sin
There's no other way for reconciliation to happen except for the fact that Jesus Christ
Took your place and took my place on the cross of Calvary
Thus making reconciliation possible thus we find the miracle of reconciliation
Turn back with me if you will to the book of Daniel
I know that we spent the last couple of weeks on Sunday morning in the book of Daniel
I had mentioned to you that we might finish up chapter number two this morning last Sunday
In fact, we'll do that in two more weeks and we'll look at the remaining portion of Daniel chapter number two
but this morning I want you to look at Daniel chapter number nine, I
referenced this portion of Scripture
Last Sunday evening as we dealt with the passage there in Jeremiah
when the Bible spoke about the importance of
Acknowledged thine iniquity and we find here in Daniel chapter 9 the prayer of Daniel after he understood
The years and dates and what have you there's a prophecy that is recorded at the end of the book of Daniel really beginning in
Verse number 20 down through the end of verse number 27 that prophecy helps us to understand
Much of what's taking place during the tribulation and all of those things and we're not getting into all of that this morning
But I want you to notice something that is given to us here in Daniel chapter number 9 notice in verse number 24
The Bible says this
70 weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city to finish the transgression
And to make an end of sins notice this and to make
reconciliation for iniquity and to bring in
Everlasting righteousness and to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy
So we find that 70 weeks we speak about the 70 weeks. We have often dealt with that
We find that there's a gap between week number 69 and week number 70 in prophecy
And we find that that 70th week is the week of tribulation again not to get into all of the prophecy this morning
But I want you to understand that he speaks about these 70 weeks and some of that which he says that's going to take place
Is that to finish the transgression and to make an end of sins and to make?
Reconciliation for iniquity notice verse number 26 the Bible says and after three score and two weeks shall Messiah
be cut off
but not for himself and the people of the Prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the
Sanctuary and the end thereof shall be with a flood and unto the end of the war desolations are determined
But notice the first portion of verse number 26 and after three score and two weeks shall
Messiah be cut off but not for himself
We find in this verse of Scripture this prophecy that's given to Daniel that it would be after
that period of time of three score and two weeks that Messiah would be cut off and
Dealing with the fact of his crucifixion
Notice this is but not for himself
See it was a substitutionary
Atonement we understand that the truth that we find in the Word of God remember
That Paul says in this passage that we're studying in 2nd Corinthians
chapter number five this morning, that He died for all. See, He died for us and we
find that we understand in the book of 1st Peter that the Bible tells us that
Jesus died, that it was for Christ also in 1st Peter 3 and verse number 18,
also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. Remember in 2nd
Corinthians 5 and verse number 21, for He, speaking of God, hath made Him, speaking
of Jesus, to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the
righteousness of God in Him. And so you find that He says after three score and
two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for Himself. And we find this
substitutionary death of the Lord Jesus Christ, the miracle of reconciliation.
Remember I told you that Paul was the one that as he went out and he began to
preach after his conversion, that he would go and he would preach Christ in
the synagogues and he would say that He is the Son of God, that He is the Messiah.
You find that this was his manner throughout his ministry, that you would
find that he would speak about Jesus and many of those in that day knew who that
person Jesus was. They understood his ministry, they were aware of his
crucifixion, but he would preach to them and he would say this, specifically I'll
reference one of the passages here in Acts 17 in verse number 3,
opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and risen again from
the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preach unto you is Christ. See, Jesus, He
is God incarnate, right? Jehovah is salvation is what the name means. Christ
is the Messiah, the Son of God, the Anointed One. And we find that throughout
the Scriptures, that as we look at Paul preaching, he says this Jesus is the
Christ. Remember when the truth was given to Mary with regard to the
announcement of the birth of Christ, it says that you shall call His name Jesus.
Why? For He shall save His people from their sins. We find in Daniel 9 that
prophecy of Messiah being cut off not for Himself. Notice in Hebrews chapter
number 2, we studied this several weeks ago, but I want you to look at two
verses of Scripture in the book of Hebrews and see the fulfillment of this
prophecy and see this understanding really of the miracle of reconciliation.
See, this morning, the miracle that is before us as we consider that which God
has done in our lives for saving our souls that we now are reconciled to God,
it's a miracle. In Hebrews 2, in verse number 17, it says, wherefore in all
things that behooved Him to be made like unto His brethren. Notice this, that He
might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God
to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. But how does He do that? Well,
we know Hebrews 9 in verse number 22, though you won't see the word
reconciliation there, you find the by or reconciled or any form of the word, but
you find in Hebrews 9 in verse 22, it says, and almost all things are by the
law purged with blood, and without shedding of blood is no remission. And we
find this miracle of reconciliation. See, Paul, as he's writing to the believers in
Corinth, and he comes to this section that we're studying this morning in
2 Corinthians chapter number 5, he's speaking about this miracle of
reconciliation. Consider how he says in verse number 17, therefore if
any man be in Christ, that's being saved, being born again, understanding that
there's only one way to be saved, and that's through the blood of Jesus Christ.
It says, He is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold all things are
become new. You see that in the life of the Apostle Paul, don't you? We read the
portion in Acts 9 at his conversion. He's going out and he's seeking to
persecute, he's making havoc of the church, and then he's saved and he begins
to preach Christ. There's a change in his life. There is a miracle that had
taken place. It's the miracle of the new birth, the miracle of reconciliation. Let
me share with you one other passage of Scripture in the book of Ephesians, if
you will. Turn over there and look at a few verses of Scripture in Ephesians
chapter number 2, and find here how the Apostle Paul deals with the subject of
reconciliation to the believers in Ephesus. Remember, if any man be in Christ
and we find that in the first three chapters of the book of Ephesians that
the Apostle Paul is dealing with the fact that you are in Christ, your
position. Remember, as we studied the book of Genesis and we dealt with the flood
of Noah's day, and we spoke about the importance of being in the ark. See, if
you were outside of the ark, you were destroyed. You had to be in the ark. That
was the place of refuge, the place of safety. We find that it was only Noah, his
wife, his three sons, and their wives, and of course the animals, but we find that
the only eight human beings were saved. Why? Because they were in the ark, and we
need to be in Christ. We need to be saved this morning. We find in Ephesians 2, in
verse number 12, it says this, that at that time you are without Christ, being
aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of
promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. See, that's
before salvation. That's the condition of all people prior to coming to Christ. We
understand, if you were to read the first few verses of the second
chapter of the book of Ephesians, how that Paul has already laid that truth,
that this is a universal condition for all mankind, that we are at enmity with
God. We are separated from God. We are without God in the world, but notice
verse 13, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh
by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace, who hath made both one and hath
broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh
the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, for to make in
himself of twain one new man, so making peace. Notice verse 16 of Ephesians 2, and
that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the
enmity thereby. Remember, we speak about the miracle of reconciliation. We spoke
about the problem. It's sin. It causes us to be at enmity with God. What can wash
away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Your works are not sufficient. The
Bible tells us, in fact, in this same passage of Scripture, for by grace are
you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of
works, lest any man should boast. There are people that today, I've had
opportunity to speak to people throughout the years, and often as I've
asked some, how is it, are you sure this morning or this evening or whatever time
of day it is, that if you were to die today, that heaven would be your home? I
hope so, I think so, maybe. Some that would reply with, yes, I've been saved. My sins
have been washed in the blood of Jesus Christ. But most of those that would
answer with the uncertainty, if I were to ask them what it was that they were
trusting in, no doubt they say my works. I'm trying to be a good person. I'm doing
the best I can. In that song that Juliana and Brianna sang this morning, part of
that song referenced the truth in the book of Isaiah, that all of our good
works are as filthy rags. There's nothing that you can do to earn your way to
heaven. Jesus paid it all. Notice as you look through the verses that we've
already referenced this morning, when we think about the miracle of reconciliation,
it's that Jesus, God in flesh, that he took my place, that he took your place,
that he paid it all. It's a miracle that the God of the universe took my place on
the cross of Calvary and said, it is finished. I've paid for your sin. Isn't
that a miracle? It's a wonderful, wonderful miracle. And this morning, those
that have been reconciled to God, you say I've been saved, I'm so thankful, and I
hope that you recognize the miracle of reconciliation. This morning, if you've
never been saved, you do not have that assurance of heaven being your home. If
you were to die today, there's a level of uncertainty as to what would happen. Can
I tell you that Jesus died for you, that he was buried, and he rose again, and he
paid for your sin, and you trust him as your personal Savior and receive the
gift of God, which is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord, and be
reconciled to God. For those of us that have been reconciled to God, I want you
to understand that not only did Paul have this truth and have this
understanding concerning the miracle of reconciliation, but he also understood
if you're taking notes number two this morning, the ministry of reconciliation.
There's the miracle...
of reconciliation,
but then there's the ministry of reconciliation.
Notice at the end of v. 18,
the Bible says this,
"...hath and hath given to us
the ministry of reconciliation."
Who's us?
Those that have been reconciled.
Those that have been redeemed.
He's speaking here about the fact
that God has given us
this ministry of reconciliation
so Paul had an understanding
of the miracle of reconciliation.
What Christ did for him
so that he could be saved.
And he says,
based upon my understanding
of the miracle of reconciliation,
I'm not going to live for myself.
I'm not going to live to meet my own desires
and to follow my own agenda.
No, I'm going to live for Christ
because He died for me and He rose again.
And my life, Lord, is Yours to control
for me to live is Christ
and to die is gain
is what he says in the book of Philippians 1
and v. 21.
And we find here that he understood the miracle,
but he also understood the ministry.
He understood that he had been entrusted
with the ministry of reconciliation this morning.
If you've been redeemed,
if you've been reconciled to God,
you're part of the us.
The ministry of reconciliation.
It says, "...and hath given to us
the ministry of reconciliation."
We need to take this truth
of the ministry of reconciliation,
we need to take it personally.
We need to understand that we personally
are to be engaged in what he's dealing with here,
this ministry of reconciliation.
Notice in v. 19, to wit, he says this,
as he's dealing with this truth
of the ministry of reconciliation,
he says that God was in Christ
reconciling the world unto Himself,
not imputing their trespasses unto them.
See, the sin and the iniquity
was poured upon Christ at His death on the cross.
And it says here at the end of v. 19,
"...and hath committed..."
There's that word again.
"...unto us the word of reconciliation."
So we find in v. 18,
"...he hath given to us
the ministry of reconciliation."
At the end of v. 19,
"...that he hath committed unto us
the word of reconciliation."
Remember what Jesus said
right before He would go to the cross of Calvary
as He's praying to His Father in John 17.
And we find that He's praying there.
And He says this,
"...sanctify them through Thy truth.
Thy word is truth."
But then He says in John 17,
in v. 18,
"...as Thou hast sent Me into the world,
even so have I also sent them into the world."
What do you send us to do?
To preach the Gospel.
The ministry of reconciliation.
Notice v. 20,
"...now then..."
Here's the understanding
as to what's been given to us.
The ministry of reconciliation.
The word of reconciliation.
He says,
"...now then, we are ambassadors for Christ."
Isn't that a wonderful truth?
That we're His ambassadors.
What's an ambassador?
It's a representative.
One who goes on the behalf of another.
Typically when we think about ambassadors,
we think about it in the context
of global, national things
where we have an ambassador
from the United States
to a particular country
and what have you.
And what are they doing?
They're in that country
representing on the behalf of
the country that they represent.
And so they're in some other country
representing the country of their origin.
And we find here
that my citizenship is no longer
here upon the earth.
We sing a song,
"...this world is not my home,
just a passing through.
My treasures are laid up
somewhere beyond the blue."
We find that there in the book of Philippians
in the third chapter,
the Bible speaks about our citizenship
being in heaven.
And what a joy that is.
See, because we've experienced
the miracle of reconciliation,
but we understand
the ministry of reconciliation.
Paul put it this way in Philippians 3
in verse number 20,
"...for our conversation is in heaven.
From whence also we look for the Savior,
the Lord Jesus Christ."
What a blessing to know
that my citizenship is in heaven.
That I'm a child of the King.
This world is not my home.
I'm looking forward to the day
that I get to meet my Savior face to face.
And forever and ever and ever
spend eternity with Him in heaven.
What a blessing that is.
That's the miracle of reconciliation.
But while we're here on earth,
we're to be engaged
in the ministry of reconciliation.
We are His ambassadors.
Notice how he continues the verse
there in 2 Corinthians 5
in verse number 20,
as though God did beseech you by us.
We pray you in Christ's stead,
be ye reconciled to God.
Notice, as we're engaged
in this ministry of reconciliation,
that we're to go,
we understand that mankind
apart from Christ,
that they're without God.
They have no hope in the world.
They have no peace.
And the only way to have peace with God
is through the atonement of Jesus Christ
on the cross of Calvary.
And only then can they be reconciled to God.
It's interesting that in the preceding
text of Scripture,
in verses 10-13 of 2 Corinthians 5,
really Paul's dealing with
a completely different subject.
That of the judgment seat of Christ
or the bema seat of Christ.
And we find that he makes
an interesting statement
in verse 11 of that text of Scripture
that I believe is pertinent
to our study this morning
with regard to the ministry
of reconciliation.
He says, knowing therefore
the terror of the Lord,
we persuade men.
We persuade men,
but we remain manifest unto God
and I trust also remain manifest
in your conscience.
And I think about this truth there
of 2 Corinthians 5
in verse 11
that we have an understanding,
we know therefore the terror of the Lord,
that we persuade men.
Have you ever read Revelation 20?
You read in verses 11-15
of the great white throne judgment.
It will happen.
Listen, it's a sad thing
that people are dying from this COVID-19.
We find that we're praying
and we're asking God to work
and to have doctors with wisdom
with regard to how to treat patients
and all of those things.
And you think about all of the efforts
that are going forth in order to preserve,
to save life,
and we're applauding them
and we're thankful for their efforts
and their attempts,
but we understand that there is,
as of the point of end to man,
wants to die.
But after this, the judgment.
You know that every day globally,
150,000 people die.
Every day, globally.
That's about the number
as you look at it on an annual basis
and you divide it out.
It's about 150,000 people every day
that die.
And the reality is that
if they die apart from Christ,
whether someone,
one of the things,
let me back up and say this,
one of the truths that I've mentioned
during this entire pandemic
is that it's going to help people
to have an understanding of their mortality.
And as we think about people
having an understanding of their mortality,
it gives us an opportunity
to be able to speak to them about Christ.
I said to someone not long ago,
you may die of COVID-19.
You may not.
You may never even be infected.
You could be infected and you could die.
But the certainty of the Scripture
is that one day you will die.
Whether you die from this particular virus,
COVID-19,
or you die from some other means,
we find that death is certain.
We find that Solomon says this,
there's a time to be born
and there's a time to die.
And I'm not trying to minimize death.
I'm simply saying that it's something
that we face.
We face this thing of death
and there are many that have a fear of death.
That's why we're called,
as we've experienced the miracle of reconciliation,
to be engaged in the ministry of reconciliation.
That we would say to people,
be reconciled to God.
To quote, once again,
the text that I received
from the retired pastor last evening,
the question,
what can wash away my sins,
is so much more important
than what can wash away my germs.
Again, I'm not trying to diminish
or to dismiss the situation
we're dealing with with COVID-19.
But can I tell you that for someone
that experiences healing,
for someone that never deals
with the exposure to this particular virus,
they still have a problem.
It's called sin.
It is a universal condition
that affects all mankind.
And we find that as we would look
at the passage of Scripture
that is before us,
and many of you know that 2 Corinthians 5
and verse number 15 is my life verse,
where the Bible says,
and that He died for all,
that they which live
should not henceforth live unto themselves.
But unto Him which died for them
and rose again.
And we find that the Apostle Paul,
as we would look at this passage of Scripture,
I believe that the truths
that we find in this passage
that Paul was sharing
of the miracle of reconciliation
and the ministry of reconciliation,
that these two truths result
Paul did, in the Apostle Paul saying, I'm living for Christ.
As I've quoted already, Philippians 1 and verse 21, for me to live is Christ, and to
die is gain.
See, I believe, as we trace the steps of Paul, that you see Paul recognized the miracle of
reconciliation.
He never got over the fact that he was reconciled to God.
And he understood what salvation was as he grew, and he understood this truth of, yes,
being redeemed and being justified, but being reconciled to God.
That I was at enmity with God because of my sin, but now that relationship has been restored.
I've been reconciled.
It's a miracle.
But not only did he recognize the miracle of reconciliation, I believe that Paul embraced
the ministry of reconciliation.
Why do we say that?
Traces steps.
Everywhere he goes, he's preaching Christ.
Everywhere he goes, he's calling people to accept the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal
Savior.
When he stood there before Agrippa, and Agrippa is there and he hears the message, and in
that particular passage of Scripture, we find that Paul, once again, shared his testimony
of what we looked at in Acts 9 of his conversion, and he shared for those that were there, Agrippa
in particular, that day in his life when he was saved.
That Agrippa says, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.
And Paul said, I would to God that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day were
both almost and altogether such as I am, accept these bonds.
We find that in Acts, that Paul often, excuse me, in the book of Romans, that Paul often
mentions his heart's desire.
You find that he says in chapter 10, in verse number 1, brethren, my heart's desire and
prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved.
See, Paul embraced this ministry of reconciliation.
After our first point, I kind of addressed those that maybe had never trusted the Lord
Jesus Christ as their personal Savior.
They never personally experienced the miracle of the new birth, the miracle of reconciliation.
But as we conclude this second point this morning, I'll speak to those that have experienced
the miracle of reconciliation.
You recognize and rejoice in your salvation, what Christ did for you, and how that now
because of that, you now are reconciled to God.
But my question for you is, are you embracing the ministry of reconciliation?
Are you embracing it?
Remember, he says in verse 18 of our text of Scripture, he hath given to us the ministry
of reconciliation.
In verse 19, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
In verse number 20, we are ambassadors for Christ.
Again, in verse number 20, we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
This morning, if you've never been saved, if you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as
your personal Savior, can I say to you, be reconciled to God.
Recognize that you're a sinner, recognize that there's a penalty for sin.
The Bible says the wage of sin is death.
The wrath of God abideth upon you.
You're at enmity with God because of your sin, and there's absolutely nothing that can
atone for your sin outside of the blood of Jesus Christ.
But he loved you so much that he died for you so that you could be redeemed, so that
you could be reconciled to God.
You understand that you're a sinner.
You understand there's a penalty.
You understand that the price has been paid.
The Lord Jesus Christ paid it all.
The Bible says the wage of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus
Christ our Lord.
If you had to work for it, it's not a gift.
It's a gift because Jesus paid for it with his own precious blood.
Would you this morning be reconciled to God?
Would you trust Christ as your personal Savior?
For those of us that have already been saved, we can look back and point on a time in our
life, maybe a specific day in our lives, when we trust that the Lord Jesus Christ is our
personal Savior.
We've experienced the miracle of reconciliation, but I wonder this morning, how are we doing
with embracing the ministry of reconciliation?
Understand that it's been entrusted to us that we havewhat a privilege, by the way,
to go and to speak to people and say, listen, the Lord Jesus Christ loved you so much that
he died for you.
What a joy to be engaged in the ministry of reconciliation, and at this particular time
in our history, I believe that there's a greater awareness of the mortality of mankind.
There is a level of fear.
I mentioned this morning, a moment ago, how that many fear death, and one of the truths
of being reconciled is the truth that we find in Hebrews 2 and verse number 15, where
the Bible says, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject
to bondage.
See, I no longer have to fear death, why?
Because I've trusted the one who's conquered death.
What a joy.
This morning, be ye reconciled to God.
The miracle of reconciliation, the ministry of reconciliation.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for the privilege of studying thy Word.
We thank you for the truth that is contained therein.
Father, we've been very specific this morning with regard to the passage of Scripture that
is before us, and Lord, I pray that if there's one that does not know you as their personal
Lord and Savior, that they would not allow another moment of time to pass before they
place their faith and trust in the finished work of Christ at Calvary, understanding that
the only way to be reconciled to God is through the Lord Jesus Christ.
He paid for that sin, the sin of mankind.
Lord, I pray for many believers that are watching, many of our church family that's watching
this morning.
God, I think of my own life, and I pray, God, that you would help me, help us to embrace
the ministry of reconciliation, that we would be good ambassadors, good representatives
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that we would go into a lost and dying world and
lift up the Lord Jesus Christ and preach, you must be born again.
I pray that we do it with passion, with compassion, and with urgency.
I pray that you'd have your will and way.
Lord, as we have a moment of invitation here, I pray that those at home would spend some
time allowing you to speak to their hearts and search their hearts, Lord, help us to
allow you to have your way in our lives, for it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.
We'll have a moment of invitation here.